So let's now rewrite this with Deno.
For that, I enabled my Deno extension again
to get a better
IDE support.
And now in the Deno folder,
I'm going to add my app.ts file
ts because we're going to use typescript.
I'm going to add a routes file,
and in there my todos.ts file.
So really the same structure as in the Node case,
just now with typescript and Deno.
Now, one key difference will be that now,
we don't need to run npm in it, and we won't need to install
any third-party packages or modules because with Deno
we use these import syntax as you learned.
So we can actually copy the code from the old apt.ss file,
which sets up a basic Oak application,
and we can copy that into apt.ss here.
Note there, I do register a middleware,
and that middleware sends back a response,
but I'll get rid of that.
I'll actually comment out the entire middleware for now.
Because, whilst, listening here is fine,
and I wanna listen on port 3000 actually, so change this,
Whilst that is fine, I of course, want to handle my request
in the routes file.
Now for that, we can import something from that Oak module.
If I copy the import path, the import statement over to
todos.ts, we cannot just import application from there,
but also a router.
So that's quite similar to Express, we can also set up
a router with the Oak framework.
We can instantiate our router like this,
and then on the router, indeed we also have GETs,
and PUT and POST message available.
So that's very similar to Express, while migrating from
Node to Deno isn't too hard.
You see it here.
So we can just also register GET route, like this,
by specifying a path for the get('/').
and then the second argument should be
your middleware function,
and there a key difference is that you don't get
request/response and next,
but that you get a context object
and then, optionally, all your next function.
But here we just need to context,
because the context will give us access
to both the request and to the response.
And now we can replicate this '/todos' of course,
all the forward posting,
but then also with a replicate this two more times
for a putting.
And you can also specify dynamic segments,
just as you do it with Express, with a colon
and then any name of your choice.
So that works just like it does in Express.
So it's really not too hard to get used to that.
And in the end, we export it,
but now here with typescript and Deno,
not with Node's module system,
but instead with the ES module system,
which you all have learned about in the modern Java Script
for the Node JS section in this course.
Here we can set up a default export,
and export our router like that.
And this allows us to go to app.ts,
and here we now import our own file
all the with import from, but of course now,
not from a url but from ./routes/todos.
Here, however, always with the file extension.
You must not omit it when working with Deno,
that is an important difference to Node.
And now here we have a default export,
so when we import it,
we can just name this todosRoutes, if you want to,
and now we can register this.
However, that's another difference to Express,
not just like this, instead todosRoutes now is an object,
which has a routes method,
which we need to call,
and that's the actual middleware we then register.
And there is a second middleware we should register,
and that's todosRoutes.allowedMethods.
You should register both to make sure that Oak
properly handles incoming requests to your routes.
With that however, this routes should be reached by
incoming requests, and besides these tiny differences,
which I highlighted, it really doesn't look too different
when we compare it to the Node Express code.
Does it?
Well, let's add some logic here now.
We have our todos and that should be an array,
but since we used typescripts here
we can and we should be more specific
regarding the kinds of data that end up in this array.
I also do talk about this in the typescript section
of this course.
So we can assign a type to todos here,
and make it clear that in there we want to have an array
of specific kinds of objects.
And for that I'll define a so called interface here
and I could do this in a separate model,
file or anything like that,
but I'll do it in line here.
And I'll name this todo,
and a todo will have an id which is a string,
and a text which is a string.
This is how you define the type
of an object in typescript,
and how you make it clear how data
of type todo should be structured.
We can now use this type here to make it clear
that this should be an array full of todo elements,
full of todo objects.
This is typescript syntax for a saying
that this should be an array full of todos.
So full of objects that each have an id field
which holds a string, and a text field that holds a string.
Well, and now we wanna send back a response here
for the GET request.
We do that by calling the response object,
or by reaching out to the response object
on the response property.
And we can simply set the body to something,
we can set the body to an object,
where we have a todo is field which holds our todos.
Now with Express, we always have to call JSON, to attach
some JSON data, to tell Express that what we attached
should be handled as JSON data and to basically
also tell Express to send back a response.
With the Oak framework, with the Oak module,
it is a bit different.
We just set the response body,
and if we set it to an object, Oak will assume
that this should be added as JSON.
So it'll automatically parse it as JSON
or transform it to JSON, I should say,
and set the appropriate response headers.
Oak will also always send back a response,
so therefore, here we just have to set a body
for that automatically send back response.
So that's all we need to do in Oak to send back our todos.
Now, before continuing,
we can test this by saving all the code,
and then we can navigate into the Deno folder,
and now Deno run
with --allow
net
app.ts,
this compiles the code and springs up the web server,
and if we now go back to Postman,
and we try sending a GET request to localhost:3000/todos
you see we get a 200 response with an empty array of todos.
So that route is reached and that clearly works.
Now, what about the other routes?
How do we implement this with Oak?
Well, for the other routes, let's continue with posting.
I want to create a new todo,
and that should be of type todo.
So here I'm assigning the todo type,
so that typescript basically complains when I try to assign
anything that does not meet this object type.
That's why currently, for example,
it's giving me an error here because an empty object
it's clearly not following that structure.
Now we can add id for, again,
I'll just generate a new Date
to ISOString here,
and set the text to the text we get
from the incoming request.
And now here is an important feature built into Oak,
it'll automatically look at the request,
at the request body, and all the request headers,
and if the request signals that the request
carries JSON data,
by setting the appropriate request headers,
then Oak will automatically parse that body
and gives access to the parsed body
on the context request body
field here.
However, body now is not an object with the
parsed body like this, instead,
body actually gives me a promise now.
So therefore, we can now get our
data by reaching out to ctx.request.body
and now we can use async await,
for that we need to convert this into async function though,
then we can use await here and we get the
ctx.request.body data at this point.
And body is a
method we should execute though.
And now on data, we actually have a value property
and that's then the actual parsed object,
so that's what we then find the text property,
if we expect to get a text key on the incoming JSON data,
which we can read and use.
So extracting the body is a little bit different,
but generally, the Oak framework does it for us, we then
we just have to access the extracted data like that.
And once we get that, we can reach out to our todos,
and push the new todo onto that array.
And then often we can set the response body, of course,
for example, to an object where we have a message key of
created todo, and where we add the
new todo that was created.
And if we now save it, quit that server
and rerun this server by repeating that command,
if we now go to the POST route, send the request,
a POST request to localhost:3000/todos
with this given body,
you see we get back to success message.
And if I now GET all todos again,
we see the todo here as well.
So that works.
Now let's work on putting and deleting.
Now, let's work on PUT.
And here we have to extract data from the params, for that
on this context object which holds request and response,
we also have a params object, and params, in the end,
gives us access to route parameters.
Here we can simply access todo id like this,
and store it in a concept.
This gives us access to the todo id
from the incoming request url.
Again the key name you choose here, of course,
has to match the name we have here.
Now, we can find the appropriate todo index,
and we can actually copy that updating code
from the Node Express port function.
We can copy this code, these lines of code here,
over into this file, because it's exactly the same logic.
The only part that differs is the request body,
there we should parse it just as we do it in the POST route,
with this line here.
And, of course, for that we should turn
this into async function.
And then we extract the text also like we do it in the post
route with data.value.text.
With that we update our todo DAO,
and then we can send back our response,
by setting the body equal to an object
where the message could updated todo,
like that.
And if we now save this and restart the server again,
our old todos will be lost,
because it's only stored in memory,
so let's first of all create a new todo,
let's then grab the id of this new todo,
and go to the PUT route and plug that id into the url,
keep the body as it is and send this request
and I get back updated todo here.
And if I get all todos, I see that one todo
with the updated text indeed.
So this also works.
Last but not least, for deleting,
here we also need the todo id, which we extract
just as we're doing it for the PUT route.
And then the logic again is the same
as in the Node Express case,
I'll copy that line where we filter our todos,
copy that over into this DELETE route
and then just set a response body
where I say 'Deleted todo'.
Now before we rerun this, there is also on other thing
I wanna show you because that can be tricky,
and that's another difference between Oak and Node Express.
In app.ts if you also want to run other middleware,
like this one here, we can, of course,
console log
middleware,
but, of course, just as in Node Express,
we need to let Oak know that we want to continue thereafter.
Therefore, we get a next function and we can call this
next function, but now here is the tricky thing,
I mentioned that Oak always automatically
sends back a response, it basically does so whenever
it's done executing a middleware, any middleware.
Not all middlewares, that's a key difference.
So when this middleware is done, it'll send back a response,
now because we're calling next, you might think that
this middleware is only done once
these route middlewares also ran.
Well, we start running these middlewares,
these route middlewares, with next,
but with next we don't wait for that.
Now in the route middleware, were doing some
async stuff view.
We got the async keyword because we're parsing
request bodies, for example.
So our route middlewares, actually, will return promises
which only are done once the async stuff in there finish.
And next will not wait for that, therefore, at the moment,
we would actually have the scenario
where we often send back a response too early,
before the route has been able to process the request.
Therefore, whenever you have any middlewares
that do async stuff, you should make all your middlewares
async and always await next.
So this tells Oak that we don't just want to start
the next middlewares in line, but that we also
want to wait for them to finish before we send back
that automatically generated response.
Otherwise, the response bodies set by our
async route middlewares, will not be taken into account.
That's a gotcha of Oak, and therefore,
something you should be aware of.
With that change made, however,
now to restart, we also have to done the middleware,
and we have to delete routes,
and now with that,
if we go for the routes again,
and I create a new todo,
I copy that url, and I try updating it,
that seems to work.
If I get my todos, you see the one updated todo there
and if I now delete that todo by sending a delete request
to the route with this correct id,
if I send this, this also works.
We see the todos are gone now,
and we see the middleware log all the work.
And that's how we can build the same kind of application
with Deno and Oak.
Now it's time for a final comparison,
and also, probably, for a judgment from my side.
Whether Deno is better, whether you should switch,
of if Node is everything you need.